guard and livereload
==============

This project shows how to use guard and livereload for automatically reload the changes in the browser when the user save its css, js, html or .less files automatically.

Quick Installation and gettings started
-------------------

Install the neccesary tools: 

 -  install ruby
 -  gem install guard
 -  gem install guard-livereload
 -  gem install guard-less
 - install livereload extension for your favourite browser : download links: http://feedback.livereload.com/knowledgebase/articles/86242-how-do-i-install-and-use-the-browser-extensions-   basic site: http://livereload.com/

Howto use?
-------------
1) open a terminal and write "guard"
2) open anothoer terminal and write “node server.js”
4) open your browser to the address localhost:3000 and activate livereload (browser extension) using the circle icon right to the address bar 

And that's it you now can modify your css, js, htm, less fils of the project and see the changes inmediately.


Kind of a Blog Post: How to speed up your web development with guard and liverreload.
--------------------


OK you are a web developer that writes lots of HTML, CSS, JavaScript (or other superlanguage like less, sass, coffescript). For development you put all your code in some kind of static server like apache and each time you need to see the changes made in your code you need to reload the HTML document pressing F5 for see the changes. So you basically : 

1) focus you text editor, write the change in the file and save the file
2) focus your browser windows and press f5
3) see the changes in the browser.

Well, in this example I have a simple html file that include a javascript, a CSS stylesheet and another CSS stylesheet generated by a .less source. You can see all the files in the following folder: TODO LINK TO SOURCES. At the end I will be editing my html, js, css, or less and the browser will do the reload thing automatically each time I save a file. 

First of all we have to install some software. All these steps were verified on linux

 -  install ruby and git
 -  gem install guard
 -  gem install guard-livereload
 -  gem install guard-less
 - install livereload extension for your favourite browser : download links: http://feedback.livereload.com/knowledgebase/articles/86242-how-do-i-install-and-use-the-browser-extensions-   basic site: http://livereload.com/
 - alternative you can include the livereload.js in your html document instead using a browser extension for working with non supported browsers like  iphone, android, etc.

OK now that we have all the software installed we will clone our sample project folder, start guard server, start a little static server for our fils and open the browser and activate the livereload plugin and voila.

1) git clone TODOLINKTOFOLDER WITH SOURCE
2) open a terminal and write “cd TODOFOLDERNAME && guard”
3) open anothoer terminal and write “cd TODOFOLDERNAME && node server.js”
4) open your browser to the address localhost:3000 and activate livereload using the circle icon right to the address bar (TODO SCREENSHOT)

voilá. Just edit any html, css, js, or less file and see the changes. 


What about using a technology that do the “press f5  key ”for you and so your “develpment lifecicle “ is shortened by: 
1) edit your source code editor
2) see the changes in the browser

Of course this will work only if you have a big monitor or multiple monitors so you see both windows at the same time. 


